README.md, before:

# Agent Configurator Tool

The _Agent Configuration Generator_ is an easy to use web interface for creating and editing agent configuration files. It targets the flow configuration format.

Try it out here: [grafana.github.io/agent-configurator/](https://grafana.github.io/agent-configurator/)

**This is an experimental tool and still in its early days!**. While we aim to support all agent components and are commited to adding support for new components, complete support will take some time.

## Core Features

Features marked as completed are currently present while the rest are still in development.

* [x] Create a fresh agent configuration file using a guided configuration wizard
* [x] Update existing configurations by editing existing components or adding new ones
* [ ] Have [all components](https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/) configurable without writing code
* [x] Share configurations as URLs

## Target Audience

* First time agent users
  * Provide value by allowing _mix and match_ configuration without having to understand the configuration language
* Advanced users
  * Provide value by improving discoverability of components and configuration options
* Expert users
  * Provide value by sharing configurations using a single URL

# Setup

1. Run `npm install` to install all dependencies.
   * Due to incompatibilities in react dependencies, you will need to use `--force` to avoid a dependency conflict
2. Run `npm start` to start the server.
3. Access the config generator on [localhost:3000](localhost:3000).

To enable and use the converter feature do the following before starting the react server.

1. From the `./backend` directory run `go run main.go` to start the API server.
2. Point at the locally running API server by running `export REACT_APP_CONVERT_ENDPOINT=http://localhost:8080/convert`.

Commit message:

docs: add agent deprecation notice (#189)

README.md, after:

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The Grafana Agent has been deprecated. We recommend migrating to the new [Grafana Alloy](https://github.com/grafana/alloy) which is built on the foundation of Grafana Agent Flow.
> We also provide the [Alloy Configurator](https://grafana.github.io/alloy-configurator/) ([Repository](https://github.com/grafana/alloy-configurator)) which replaces this tool.

# Agent Configurator Tool

The _Agent Configuration Generator_ is an easy to use web interface for creating and editing agent configuration files. It targets the flow configuration format.

Try it out here: [grafana.github.io/agent-configurator/](https://grafana.github.io/agent-configurator/)

**This is an experimental tool and still in its early days!**. While we aim to support all agent components and are commited to adding support for new components, complete support will take some time.

## Core Features

Features marked as completed are currently present while the rest are still in development.

* [x] Create a fresh agent configuration file using a guided configuration wizard
* [x] Update existing configurations by editing existing components or adding new ones
* [ ] Have [all components](https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/) configurable without writing code
* [x] Share configurations as URLs

## Target Audience

* First time agent users
  * Provide value by allowing _mix and match_ configuration without having to understand the configuration language
* Advanced users
  * Provide value by improving discoverability of components and configuration options
* Expert users
  * Provide value by sharing configurations using a single URL

# Setup

1. Run `npm install` to install all dependencies.
   * Due to incompatibilities in react dependencies, you will need to use `--force` to avoid a dependency conflict
2. Run `npm start` to start the server.
3. Access the config generator on [localhost:3000](localhost:3000).

To enable and use the converter feature do the following before starting the react server.

1. From the `./backend` directory run `go run main.go` to start the API server.
2. Point at the locally running API server by running `export REACT_APP_CONVERT_ENDPOINT=http://localhost:8080/convert`.
